| Chair | Timekeeper | Note Taker |
|-------|------------|------------|
| GR    | ???        | tw         |

# Previous sprint

PI changeovers confusing

Shared laptop helpful

Ticket priority - probably not enough data to tell whether there was any change.

Source code in dev manual - yes move it - ticket exists

Manual system tests on release

Build nodes

Windows patching / IBEX deployment - note added to draft email by KB

GALILOLD is bad
- Should we update GALILNEW to be actually new, otherwise GALILNEW is a bit old.

Remind people when they are on first line support

Zipping up builds, sophos is horrible. Tickets. Many tickets. Some of which are conflated with each other.

Use NDXMOTION to do beckhoff stuff, don't install XAR locally. JH removed from install & build wiki page.

# Current Sprint

### Defunt emails that looks like it's associated with us but isn't.

FA has sorted this.

### Instrument Demos

FA: how to balance too early (scientists on holiday) vs too late (not enough test time)

KB: think we should book demos week after deploy.

Conclusion: try to book 2 weeks before cycle

### Instant awards scheme

LC: Yes put people forwards for awards. Nominating whole teams / more people will tend to get a bit more scrutiny.

### Tips/tricks teams channel

ES: Minor tips & tricks that aren't worth a whole wiki page, maybe a lightweight way to share these little things.

KB: creating the teams channel as we speak

FA: more curation/organization might be good long term if it gets too big.

KB: if channel gets too big then we can move things out of teams channel to somewhere else

IG: OneNote?

KB: Onenote in teams not very good

GR: Maybe let's go for a channel this sprint and then review

Various: is it searchable enough?

FA: how categorizable is it?

LJ: Make replies to top-level "theme" posts? Similar to retrospective channel?

Conclusion: try teams channel, evolve it over time as needed.

### Release timeline

GR: Let's not spend too much time discussing this

### The end of üêê is nigh

DK: üêêüíÄ at end of financial year?

KB: No. End of project is September 2025. But most people won't be booking significant time to ibex post June.

GR: Just to be clear this is the üêê project, not the üêê product

KB: next PI we might be looking at doing things differently. August.

DK: Can we have more time for internal team/technical priorities

FA: Have a formal 80/20 split for tickets which are scientist-driven/not-scientist-driven, but there's also scope for "personal development" type time outside the ticket framework.

FA: Post ibex finish we can review some of our IBEX tech choices, some bits of üêê are looking a bit dated.

### Wikis

GR: 3 wikis exist, sometimes with duplicate content. Happy to tinker.

IBEX: scientist facing
Dev: dev facing
User: how to use ibex

Conclusion: go for it George.

JH: repository-specific info - migrate to `README` or docs of each repo.

LJ: Searching?

ES: Search at org level

### Pyright

JH: people will be upset but it's a good idea

TW: didn't actually cause too many issues in practice

KB: still some instruments to migrate in summer

### Standup

CMS: Move "friday" standup tasks to "thursday"?

LJ/KB/GR: Discussion about whether we might lose code review time

LJ: should we be stricter about actually doing the code reviews

### Staff updates vs standup

JH: Big announcements (UKRI/STFC/NatLabs level) that various people in the team miss if clashes with standup

KB: All staff meeting might take priority anyway

Various: discussion about tangentially related things

ES: is standup actually important?

KB: standup is important to connect to others

GR: We can probably justify missing one standup every so often

Conclusion: don't know and/or don't care, other meetings might take priority, as long as ops stuff e.g. nagios gets checked. "Someone" will take care of it.

### 