| Chair      | Timekeeper | Note Taker |
| :--------:   | :---------: | :----------: |
| DM | ?? | DK |

## Items from last retrospective:

- Wiki restructuring: catch up with ES when returned.
- Central MySQL service: SCD can host, but need requirements first. E.g. Possibly 20 instruments x 20 Gb x 5 cycles per year -> ~2Tb per year.  Motor positions particularly useful to log for reinstating.  Suggest separate meeting to discuss.
- Should we have Standup every day?: Been trying 30 minutes limit.  Feeling is that not much quicker, but an improvement.  Suggest host checks errors before meeting to avoid digging through links and logs.  LC felt hosting went more smoothly when checked pages beforehand.  Depends on number of errors.
- PI board for planning: Will use for planning meeting on 11/01/2024.  Report back next sprint retrospective.
- Merchandise: Regarding other groups' policy on keeping jumpers, nothing back from MN yet as been on leave.  No problem ordering jumpers as company in science warehouse.  DK will order with JH help so that FA can approve.
- Flat GitHub structure: Add pull requests in tickets to development workflow to avoid automatic closing when merging a single PR.  Need some investigation of GitHub behaviour as still seems to do this.
- Documentation: Still lacking in some areas, but external users say IBEX wiki very useful and extensive.


***

## Items from this retrospective:
-

***

### Other comments (Mad/Glad/Sad)
- 