# Retrospective notes 22/09/2021

## Items from last retrospective

* IOC tests being a useless metric had - lots of progress but still needs some work
* Checkstyle being prioritized too high - not much else to say
* Good to see people in the office having a teams meetings - again good, now going to start booking meeting rooms though for larger meetings
* Avoid re-adding release notes - ACTION: JH to create ticket
* Incompatible python version spotted when doing release - good
* Themes columns on planning board - current system is nice, automation is helpful
* Release at start of sprint - will be trying it again this time
* "added during sprint" label - opinions unchanged
* Sprint themes discussion - Feelings that themes have caused issues with prioritization 


## Items from current retrospective

### Tests not passing
* close to getting them done
* consistent failures taken out, need to keep an eye on fixing them

### Team morale
* Potential of an away-day, but need to take into account different conference levels
* Possibility of booking a conference room big enough for everyone on site
* FA going to talk to people individually to assess comfort levels
* Office occupancy will be continually assessed, looking to increase occupancy levels in various ways (keep an eye on CO2 monitor)

### Feeling the distance that being remote has caused
* Feeling that we're doing a good job

### Burndown chart jumping
* This was mostly due to a lot of big-point reviews going through at the same time, including release and tech-debt week

### Planning Fridays
* JH not a fan of the concept of planned Fridays as opposed to spontaneously picking up tickets for them, but understands that this could be too chaotic
* Whilst remote especially, best to have some planned conversation before starting to work on tickets to replace the small office conversation that would otherwise occur
* A week of Fridays might be too long, especially getting reviews through
* Next Friday week, consider only starting new Friday tickets on Monday and Tuesday, then only working on existing tickets and reviews for the rest of the week

### Would people prefer being told which themes they're meant to be working on
* Everyone seems on board with this, KB happy to continue letting people know and willing to move things around if a developer has preferences.
* Assignments posted in "announce" on teams after planning

### Noting how much IBEX work done at end of sprint
* Suggestion that people let KB know at the end of a sprint how much time was actually spent on IBEX
* Happy to be half-day granularity

### Working with EMU Scientists
* Good that we were able to talk with scientists, set up kit with them etc.

### Squish
* Now that we have a floating squish license, should run training for developers so that everyone is able to write tests

### Information about accessing blockhouses
* Hard to remember safety walkthroughs for all instruments, best to find the scientist to do it for you
* Should be a copy of local rules on/near the door if needed

