# Retrospective notes 21/07/2021

## Items from last retro

- Tech-debt and Fridays have been collaborative which is good! Similar comments about planning tickets for Friday. Plan is to make a ticket to organise Fridays/tech-debt so meetings are had to plan and review tickets. We should have 2 standups to encourage collaboration or a channel that is always open to drop in and out of.
- Improved automation of the board is nice.
- Kathryn has deleted a couple of unused project boards which is good.
- Code chats should be organised to talk about investigating new technologies.
- Important dates: we need to check if alerts work, adding important dates have been useful
- Having new starters on site means that we organise ourselves more to get on site which is good. We should look at continuing this.

## Coffee

- Let's make coffee a very short second stand-up and then people can stay on for coffee
- It's ok to send apologies if you're busy just like in the mornings
- Need agreement from Freddie
- Compulsory to either attend or message why you are not attending

## Passivity

- We don't tell people we need to do something until we are doing it, we should give more warning for things like getting requirements, doing deployments etc.
- How can we become more proactive?
- Who owns the NDX, how can we share it better with the instrument scientists? This needs to be discussed more in depth
- An example is the SANS2D migration where scientists didn't know about the component steward and talked to different people for each ticket

## Keeper

- Someone needs to try out keeper to discuss how it works and present if we can use it and how to migrate to it (maybe at a code chat)
- Jack will do it, James will organise the code chat

## Issue templates

- We can have multiple templates to choose between (this is useful for releases and a generic release template)
- Our current generic template contains a standard title "Component: Short description", a user story with some more detail, acceptance criteria and some extra notes
- We can change the generic template but we need to make sure our process is light and tickets are readable
- Though including things like where is the code
- We use issues as user stories not issues in reality
- Jack has previously used
  1. How: What is the issue
  2. Where: Where the issue is likely to be (being as specific as possible inducing relative file paths etc)
  3. How: How did the issue come about
  4. Reproducible: Yes/No and any additional information
  5. How to test the issue is resolved: A set of instructions / a script / include test file if required to act as a reference for the developer when tackling the issue and the reviewer when work is complete.
- Both Jacks will write their own and compete to win the ultimate issue template

## Burndown suggesting we haven't done enough

- Yes it was difficult to calculate this at the start with so many unknowns

## Tasks board isn't being interacted with much

- We will put some into proposals that we can do as actual tickets
- It's not so useful out of sprint
- We should tidy it up soon
