## Items from last retro
* Managing security issues - current org. concern because of many different types of security vulnerabilities
* Ticket, PR & Branch clean-up - do a proper cleanup over the shutdown, and as we notice them
* Short-staffed when urgent workload is high - point for 4 weeks of work and do Fridays if not doing support
* Themed sprints

## Future Ideas wiki [page](https://github.com/ISISComputingGroup/IBEX/wiki/Future-Ideas)
- Used for long-term planning, "idea repository". Should we maintain this?
  - people haven't added anything in there recently
  - unsure of how to keep track of things in the long term
  - good place for things that are nice to do and would like to when we have the time
  - great place for tasks for placement/graduates
- Keep it

## Planning Poker Rooms - anonymous voting
- traditionally the selected cards are not anonymous
  - would we prefer anonymous, or displaying the vote cast?
- No strong opinions, keep it as is

## Experiment Controls email - using too much?
- hasn't bothered anyone
- good to see what goes in and out

## All releases seem to be stressful
- this round has been relatively calm, but it has still had its moments
  - there have been discussions in the past, but is it worth thinking about it and revisiting it towards the end of this calendar year?
- do deployments much earlier, 2 weeks is too late; can deploy early is release is ready
- release was getting pushed back because of MUSR, stop doing that - release for all instruments and do a MUSR patch release late
- make sure to tell the scientists that we are deploying to establish hard deadline; scientists also want a window, so they know when to be available
- don't delay the release unless it breaks instruments - if not ready before the start of release sprint, don't add it

## This sprint has been stressful
- need time to decompress after this sprint
- pushing ourselves hard to get things ready for cycle - this is affecting morale
- we should think about ways to avoid this happening again
- it has been a bit stressful but overall people feel ok
- if it helps, can "dial-down" next sprint

## Technical articles channel
- we should send more technical articles round the group, should we have a channel?
  - don't want people to feel obligated to read it
  - reading could be allocated as training time
  - see if people are okay with 2 chapters in a month, if not maybe 1 chapter
  - neutron training course was the same (though it was more on the physics side of things), while this could be more about software
- this channel could be good training. Try to pick a book or online articles and discuss it at a code chat, see how it goes

## Support tasks - 0 pointers or not
- How are we counting support tasks? 0 pointers or not?
  - allowed to be 0, but if it takes time it shouldn't be
  - burndown chart is -20 because of the support chunk
  - decide capacity according to trend and keep to it
- carry on with support being 0 as long as it doesn't take too much time

## Second week in cycle too early for sprint review
- is second week in cycle still too early for a sprint review? still busy on support.
  - always going to be hard and there's always the possibility of support calls in the middle of it
  - maybe split the meetings to be "less interrupted" if something comes up, instead of having a long meeting
- yes, split reviews and retrospectives.

## Half an hour is too short for retrospective
- Change meeting time to an hour