### Items from the last retro:
* add Alarm history to alarm view - hadn't been added to Muon snags list, has now, discuss at later date.
* "Support" label tickets requiring release notes, this has been changed we use the "no release notes" label now if things don't need release notes.
* Return to discussion about snag lists and balance between features and stability for instrument scientists. Meeting with group leaders in future might help with this.
* Visit cabin and blockhouse to tidy & label wiring only had a ticket for one instrument. Tickets for all or large ticket with checkboxes? Do this with someone else, will be difficult with 1 person, possibly 3 on pearl.
* Cable amnesty, a start has been made, but possibly talk to halls committee? problem of not knowing where cables have been so don't know if they need checking etc. Ask health physics for advice?
	
### Email to teams:
* Create a ticket in support issues. Discussion should happen here.
* Have emails forwarded to more people to avoid having it marked as read if it's seen by anyone.
	* note for who would be happy to have emails forwarded to you from the exp-controls inbox.
	* Possibly forward ticket only the first time, this way you don't get all the replies?
	* Ticketing system? get Footprint status?
		* almost no one used Footprints web interface, this is why its in teams
		
### Proposed tickets were added to the planning board before the pre-planning meeting. Good!
	
### How did Tech debt go?
* Tried something different with allowing a bit more time rather than tech-debt day.
* Never had the planning meeting because we were partway through the week and the pre-tech debt ticket wasn't finished yet. 
* A lot of people didn't get much tech-debt done because of having things to do already probably because of not having a meeting?
* Will be stricter next time with tech debt.
* didn't feel like people were willing to engage, and cycle was a pain so not pushed, next tech debt isn't in cycle.
		
### Work-life balance
* messages and emails out of working hours can lead to a lack of work-life balance and burnout, please take time when your not always thinking about work.
		
### Reflectometry Board
* Purpose of the board is to give a prioritised list to pick items from.
		
### Change to automation of review complete column
* Change the name to done?
* if something is closed we can know what state it was in.
* completed label has been removed

### Issue Templates
* Discuss at next retrospective when Jack is present?
* Suggested template has a lot that would need to be removed
* At least having headings might be useful
* Similar to Pull request templates.
* a lot to change on the first line so might as well delete, could just be less detailed about what needs to be in it because new people could just look at other issues and experienced people would just delete it.
* can we select different templates?
	
### In Progress Impeded and Ready
* Labels are useful, could be helpful on different project boards.
* Possibly automate them?
	
### Un-touched project boards
* several project boards haven't been updated since 2019
* support board leftover from before teams channel
* remove them
		
### Burndown behind or not?
* discuss another time when relevant people are here.
		
### Investigating new technologies
* When do we try new tools that might be useful to the project?
* Migrations have to be done, so give the first 6 months to see how well migrations are going perhaps?
* Raise technology and discuss whether possible benefits are worth further investigation.
* Future ideas board?
* Fridays come in weeks, good time to look into it?
* Review migrations to see if we're ahead or behind and then consider them, possibly 3 months in.
	
### Meeting times
* A lot of the time only 1 or 2 people in meeting room at the start 
* are times/days problem or people not being ready?
* This review/retrospective has had a very short review, somewhat a-typical.
	* more often runs on to 2 hours.
* We split them while we were in cycle to avoid missing both due to support.
* once new starters are in address that's a good time to update it
* Having them together means it can work as this time needs to be free.
* Split them during cycle and not outside of cycle
* block out more time, start earlier, finish same time, more time for a break between review and retrospective if the review takes a full hour.
* 3 o'clock start and 1.5-hour run leads to outside of core hours. could move it to 2 until 4 but most people not bothered by 4:30 finish.
* Start at the same time but have a longer break, very likely to overrun.
		
### Important dates
* Server shutdowns and electrical shutdown dates made be useful to have on the experiment controls calendar.
* Other important dates might be useful to have in there.
* check if shared calendars work with alerts.
* Overlaying of calendars. 
		
### Students
* how often coming in
* supervision of them
* get higher occupancy of the room? have screens added?
	* may have to wear a mask
* needs quick resolution
* have them on site the first week, but possibly not have them in every day that week?
		