> [Wiki](Home) > [Deployment](Deployment) > [Deployment on an Instrument Control PC](Deployment-on-an-Instrument-Control-PC) > [Upgrade ISISICP](Upgrade-ISISICP)

# To upgrade on a computer when the DAE type is remaining the same

1. Check `isisicp` and `isisdatasvr` processes are not running. You cannot kill them if ISISDAE-IOC-01 is running so you need to stop this separately (and stop procserv restarting them) or run stop_ibex_server  
1. Backup existing installation: copy the following to `c:\data\old\isisdae_backup_YYY_MM_DD`:
    - `c:\LabVIEW Modules\dae`
    - `c:\data\recovery.run`
    - `c:\data\selog.*` (.sq3 .sq3-shm and .sh3-wal files)

1. Confirm the type of DAE you have - look in `c:\labview modules\dae\icp_config.xml`, if DAEType is 1 or 2 you have a DAE2 (1 for neutron instruments, 2 for muon instruments), if it is 3 you have a DAE3. If you install the wrong type, it will just fail to start and complain in the ICP log file.
1. Go to `\\isis\inst$\Kits$\CompGroup\ICP\ISISICP` and into the directory for the DAE type you have
1. Go into the latest build number directory (also in `LATEST_BUILD.txt`) and double click on `update_inst.cmd`
   This can take a while (several minutes). You will get various messages. The following are OK:
    * If it can't replace the file `isisicp_extMC.dll` as it is open
1. As printed to screen at the end of script, open a command terminal as administrator (gamekeeper) and run
   ```
   cd "c:\labview modules\dae"
   register_programs.cmd
   ```
1. Now delete `c:\data\selog.*` (.sq3 .sq3-shm and .sh3-wal files)

This complete the ISISICP installation

At this point is it useful to install/update the JournalParser. This utility is not part of the ISISICP
but reads the journal file generated by the ISISICP at run end and updates entries in the MqSQL database
got use by the IBEX journal viewer. The program is ran by the isisicp at run end via end_of_run.bat  

1. Finally run journal parser installation, found at `<public share>\journalparser_static_new`
   - *Either* run `install.bat` to install it an migrate all old journal files (new ibex instrument)
   - *or* run `install_no_migrate.bat` to install it without copying old journal files (existing ibex instrument)


A log from register_programs.cmd
```

C:\Windows\system32>cd "c:\labview modules\dae"
c:\LabVIEW Modules\dae>register_programs.cmd
ERROR: The process "LabVIEW.exe" not found.
ERROR: The process "SeciUserInterface.exe" not found.
ERROR: The process "SECIStartup.exe" not found.
ERROR: The process "mkscript3.exe" not found.
ERROR: The process "muonscript.exe" not found.
ERROR: The process "makescript.exe" not found.
ERROR: The process "PlotScan.exe" not found.
ERROR: The process "vs7jit.exe" not found.
ERROR: The process "mari_script.exe" not found.
ERROR: The process "tkgenie32.exe" not found.

INFO: No tasks running with the specified criteria.
ERROR: The process "isisdatasvr.exe" not found.
ERROR: The process "isisicp.exe" not found.
ERROR: The process "cwdss.exe" not found.
ERROR: The process "runapp.exe" not found.
The process cannot access the file because it is being used by another process.
Registering Release images
Registering in x64\Release
Press any key to continue . . .

c:\LabVIEW Modules\dae>
```

# changing DAE type (DAE2 -> DAE3)

1. If DAE3 is new to this computer, it may not have the "Microsoft Visual C++ 2015 redistributable" installed. Check in the installed program list, if it is missing run `vc_redist.x64.exe` in `\\isis\inst$\Kits$\CompGroup\ICP\ISISICP\VS2015`   
1. install the new DAE software as above
1. edit icp_config.xml and change DAEType from 1 to 3
1. Before you run DAE3 for first time you will need to run `set_dae3_arp.bat` in `labview modules\dae` as an administrator
1. You will also need to add `set_dae3_arp.bat` to be run as administrator at system startup. To do this run the task scheduler as administrator and then import the `DAE3_arp_boot_task.xml` boot task file.
1. Also check firewall settings 