# CCD100

This device is used at ISIS to measure either pressure or flow.

There is a unit string set in the device by the team that set it up, they also set up any calibration that is needed (IBEX cannot control the calibration).

The CCD100 on POLARIS is at a particularly high baud rate and long cable run. This means that when the device is disconnected it receives junk. See https://github.com/ISISComputingGroup/IBEX/issues/2326.


## Models

There are 3 types of CCD100 in use at ISIS:

### MK1

We cannot talk to these remotely. They do not have a comms menu available via the front panel, and there will be no "func" button on the front panel. See ticket https://github.com/ISISComputingGroup/IBEX/issues/3819

**We can't talk to these units. Although there are ports and cables to physically connect the device to a moxa, there is no remote communication interface that we can use**

### MK2

These are "standard" models which have been in use on a few beamlines, notably Polaris. Connected by serial.

### MK3

These are TCP based - set `IPADDR` (for tcp) instead of `PORT` (for serial) and it will automatically use a different protocol file appropriate for the Mk3.

Set the `IPADDR` macro to IP address of unit (they do not support DHCP). Pressure section have been allocated a range of IP addresses to use for these devices, so we should not need to assign one. Check that the subnet mask on the unit has been changed to 255.255.**252**.0 and is not 255.255.255.0 (factory default). The units do respond to a ping when correctly connected to the network, however they either don't support (or it doesn't work) regarding gateways so they only ping from a machine on the the same subnet 

#### MK3 troubleshooting

These devices present their IP address in a slightly misleading way - with leading zeros which are not valid in an IP address. For example, `130.246.039.156` on a front panel is really `130.246.39.156` - note the 0 has been removed from `039`.

They should respond to a ping, and even have a webpage which gives the current reading.
