# 2023-02-01

| Chair      | Timekeeper | Note Taker |
| :--------   | :---------: | ----------: |
| JH | NR | DK |

## Items from [last retrospective](https://github.com/ISISComputingGroup/ibex_developers_manual/wiki/Retrospective-notes-2023.01.04):

### 
> Is point allocation for support appropriate?
- Best to apply points earlier in the sprint

###  
> Migrating to new GitHub projects system and separating issues
- Decided _not_ to use GitHub Pages for the moment, but will review at later date

### 
> Coffee
- Too tricky to invite MANTID group to coffee (as they work remotely more often), but should be possible with accelerator controls group.  **FAA** talking to Ivan about this anyway


## Items from this retrospective:

### Try to automate more of release workflow to avoid errors
- Discuss when ticket is next proposed (at following planning meeting)

### Shorter sprints to avoid unplanned work?
- Try to be better about adding tickets that anyone can work on
- OK to add urgent tickets any time
- Group would rather _not_ have more context switching with more frequent and shorter meetings
- Suggested splitting tickets down further, but some can't be and so still wouldn't be finished by sprint end
- Decided to keep as is, but bear in mind the option in future

### CO2 monitor, is it still effective?  Perhaps worrying too much about it?
- Agreed that indication useful for air quality if nothing else
- Dilemma between high CO2 levels and room temperature with windows open
- SHE group and/or Estates to be contacted for current policy -> **TL to do this**.

### Recent AwayDay very worthwhile and productive
- Good to have Hannah & Sonya there for alternative perspectives and input
- Suggestion to discuss long-term plans more often -> **TL to elaborate**
- Hopefully ideas from the day will be implemented, or at least prioritised with rest of work

### Could be more ambitious with migration schedules
- Feeling that the group could get on with the migrations and finish them.  **KVLB** agreed, but reported that the team is too stretched to cope at the moment
- Remaining migrations have most equipment catered for
- Tickets will be created for remaining kit and proposed as training for new starters.  Starting soon with PEARL and HIFI.

### General thought that the group is not currently working on 'large'(er) projects
- TS1 & TS2 coming up soon, so best not to take too much on at the moment

### Prediction that TS1 coming back online will generate many problems for the group, having not been run for ~18 months
- Lots of equipment has been switched off and/or disconnected during that time, so the group is expecting many calls even if the problem is not actually with the control software itself (but it shows the symptoms)
