# 2019-04-24

## Stressed Feeling

The major issue this sprint was the feeling that no progress has been made this sprint and that we are very busy. There is a general concern that the next sprint we have said we will convert a new instrument but there is a feeling we do not have time for this. The new instrument will be resolved at sprint planning. Progress this sprint has been slow because:

- lots of support calls because of the loss of a key member of the group
- easter holidays and APR season took time out of the sprint
- we need to make sure we can do the number of points in a sprint. 
- need to be prepared to say "No" to requests sometimes; if someone doesn't want to do this or are not sure then request should be passed to team lead, group lead or PM.

## Number of Reworks

Have a lot of rework tickets, to help this we have agreed to do informal reviews if possible before the ticket goes into review. (This has been added to [workflow](https://github.com/ISISComputingGroup/ibex_developers_manual/wiki/Tickets-and-their-Workflow))

Also agreed to try and make pull requests smaller.

## Emulators in Support Modules

We want a discussion about what should be in support modules. Should the emulator and/or OPI be in here?

## Use LUA

In general, we would like to LUA instead of `st.cmd`. There is little risk to this we should start by converting an IOC and make sure it works and then add it to the device generator. [Ticket#4288 created]( https://github.com/ISISComputingGroup/IBEX/issues/4288)]

## Pending Tasks

We should make sure that pending tasks scheduled for the next sprint are in sprint planning. [Added to sprint planning description](https://github.com/ISISComputingGroup/ibex_developers_manual/wiki/Sprint-Planning)

