| Chair      | Timekeeper | Note Taker |
| :--------   | :---------: | ----------: |
| FA | LC | ES |

## Items from last retrospective:

### Wednesday was missing some coverage
- We have shifted the rota around a bit to balance experienced people with new starters. Cycle starts end of September, Lowri will be back in September, this should help with coverage.

### Mechanism to propose tickets for future sprints, not necessarily the next one
 - KB mentioned PI board is exactly for this, and people are welcome to utilise it for this purpose. However, we should consult KB before adding tickets on so it doesn't get horrifyingly cluttered.
   - This would also be appreciated as it means not all the responsibility falls on to one person!
 - Agreed solution (along with any notes in the ticket to detail the expectations):
   - For [PI_2023_02](https://github.com/orgs/ISISComputingGroup/projects/4), tickets can be added to the PI board, in the ['Next PI' column](https://github.com/orgs/ISISComputingGroup/projects/4/views/5)
   - For later PIs, tickets can be added to the correct sprint column in the 'Breakdown by Sprint' view

## Items from this retrospective:


### Burndown Chart skewed due to BAU tasks, IBEX vs. non-IBEX tickets
- It all works if amount of Project and BAU added stays consistent; if not, the point average will be going up and down. 
Based on IBEX+; It makes the most sense to put that all on the board. If you have an idea of how much work there is and what you’re doing you can better estimate. 
- The main idea of the burndown chart is to help estimating and current sprint work. 
- What is exactly included in “+” part of “IBEX+”? We might not be pointing stuff which is not IBEX and also is not “+”, but should that count on the burndown chart. General scope definition of "IBEX+" explicitly might be necessary
- IBEX work could be more than the “50%” discussed in previous planning, if it’s work done that is not part of the migration project/process

### Start moving New grads into support stuff? 
- Usually this is done after a year and a bit after, but we are somewhat short staffed, so getting an idea for the process generally; i.e. going down to the halls, etc. with those who are on support for ES and DM might be good to start soon.

### IBEX training course
- For New Starters vs. for New Scientists/Users
- Learning things such as, "How do I add a block in IBEX?" and other stuff would help out when doing support. 
- Might be a good idea to run a training course for us, would not need to set up external machines. Are we running a “proper” IBEX training course soon? - - Since we are migrating new instruments, e.g. Muon instruments are migrating and such. There might be new scientists who have started on new instruments that would benefit from this. 
- Need to send out an email to check interest on external training. Need NDXDEMO/NDXTEST if doing for Scientists/Users 
- We can make NDXTEST relatively easily for this, and we have the space and capacity to do this. 
- Training course sounds like a good idea; if we just run it for developers we can just do it in G.06 on our own machines, once we have all the new starters, the week of the 20th of August. After that we can sort out if we’re doing it for scientists as well


### Other comments (Mad/Glad/Sad)
#### SAD:
- TL: Beckhoff issue generally, Motion Group loss of staff, temporarily losing Jack to them
- JH: INTER might have delays due to safety issues, probably starting off just their own experiments without any users. Not sure how they’ll deal with the safety issue. They pressed a “stop” yesterday which caused a large heavy thing to drop, which had hazard potential if someone had been standing underneath it. Various safety concerns with loss of power, etc. This will probably make INTER stuff run a bit slower. 
SURF is most likely going back to Galils as well, as they don’t have anyone to do Beckhoff 

#### MAD: 

#### GLAD:
- FA: We got through a lot of useful tickets, and a lot of tickets generally, and we have good new people in the team.
- LC: Happy the last big block of MUSR is done and on schedule.
- ES: Seeing the cryostat/ needle valve work was cool
- FA: Hasn’t been too warm which is nice in the office, we aren't overheating.

