> [Wiki](Home) > [Project overview](Project-Overview) > [Notes from Retrospectives](Retrospective-Notes) > [Sprint Ending 2018-12-20](Retrospective-Notes-2018.12.20)

# General

* Should we add the impact of our tickets to help us prioritise them?
    * Decided to try initial sort by urgent and important quadrants.

# Mad

* Review column has been very full
    * Remember to put one in, take one out
    * Has been hard because some people have been stuck on long tickets
* Muon separator became a black hole of time
    * Can we highlight time spent on this? [Kevin given action]
    * Deadline set was not realistic, in that they still haven't plugged in the kicker. This is something to learn for future projects
* Hard to track progress through projects.
    * We should investigate story mapping to illustrate the stories we are working on and their progress
* Hard when you go down to an instrument to decide whether a device is connected properly. Talked about cable mapping tools and getting electronics to fill in forms
    * Decided to start recording it whenever we go down to an instrument on IOC specific pages. 

# SAD

* Tickets which scope creep are bad, it is hard to recognise when items are going to creep
    * Be mindful of estimates, if you are meeting then bring it up immediately
    * Stop scope creep for IOC by adding an analysis step (Keithley 2001 was example)
        * [John to add to process between sprint prep and planning if that is ok this feels like when we should do this]

# Glad

* Friday and Tech debt days were good, it was good to see them in the sprint again
* New instrument migrations were good. Process is now a fine art
* Instrument demos were useful with good feedback
* Live view was "ridiculously useful"
* ENGINX thought their requests had been well managed
    * All instrument scientists were happy seeing improvements in IBEX

