| Chair        | Timekeeper  | Note Taker   |
| :--------:   | :---------: | :----------: |
| CMS          | FA          | KB           |

### Present:
- in person: FA, TW, JD, IG
- online:    JH, KB, GR, SC, CMS, DK, LJ

# Previous Sprint
* Failed to remind, but 6pm on the Wednesday before the planning meeting is OK
* Possibly gone too far the other way at the moment re show and tell, some concern that we are now presenting there things which should be a code chat

# Current Sprint
* Timekeeping when talking about own tickets
   * Others can and should help in this situation
* Bluesky presentation was good
* Nicer UI for the github configs repo
   * Ongoing, new authority types set up, need to keep testing
   * Action: JH will follow up on this
* VMS service and controls link
   * Discussed at group meeting
   * Controls moving to EPICS and a future option may be something different
* Ticket labels
   * Are they still useful for viewing tickets in other locations? Yes for some
   * Automation will help
* Day for Ruff/Pyright fixing
   * We should have one
   * Have this instead of a Friday day in the Sprint
   * Action: KB to find a suitable day
* Testing all IOCs
   * Mainly resolved in the thread
   * First task is to resolve running tests in parallel
* Planning meeting timings
   * Defer a second time to when Freddie is present
* Task board view
   * Use a table rather than a board, gives better information in a good order
   * Need to ensure flash reviews are brought to the top

## Mad/Glad/Sad
KB: As PM, sad that only one out of three instruments has migrated, but glad that they have been delayed for good reasons

DK: Glad the training went well

JH: Feels there have been fewer calls for basic items

### Other
Nothing discussed