| Chair      | Timekeeper | Note Taker |
| --------   | --------- | ---------- |
| David | Chris | Lilith |

--- 

# Items from last retrospective

_Items discussed in the previous retrospective_

### Standup in meeting rooms
Already doing it, happy with it.

### Code chat bookings
Will do so.

### Planning chairs
Kathryn continue for this PI.

### Coffee Attendance
Better weekly, need to avoid maintenance days (whoops).

### Standup time
Better recently!

### Checkstyle
Now 0! Make them error instead of warn? Tom will delete from standup links and make build error.

### New developer issues
Maybe training 1 and training 2 to determine how in-depth tickets will be

### repo_checks in general
Frequency has changed, but staying in general
---


# Items from current retrospective

## Wiki/comms

### Hard to read diagrams
If you use a dark background on github, a lot of images with transparent backgrounds are hard to read. In future, try to upload with solid backgrounds

### Discussion meetings
Scheduled as-and-when we can, another coming up this sprint

### Who is working on a support issue?
Is there an easy way to make it clearer who is currently looking at a support issue so that we don't step on each other's toes or neglect an issue.
Shocked face on support thread to show if you're looking into this, smiley when done.

### Standing up at stand up
Do the people on-site still need to stand up? Currently talking to a series of torsos, danger that if we sit down we'll start taking longer again. Will try this week, see what happens.

## Process

### DO we want to be officially limit the number of tickets in `in progress`? Theoretically should be swapping between `in progress` and `impeded` as needed.
Theoretically project board checks should be policing us on this, however our "standard list of warnings" isn't something that we should have.
Impeded could be used as a "parking space" for when you need to take a pause in a ticket for rework hardware testing etc.

### automate update submodules as a github actions?
Might be just enough times when it wouldn't work that it won't be worth it. Possibly make a manually Jenkins build for it, but seems about as much effort as manual process, so probably leave it

### Training issues
See above, possibly pointing training too.

### On site rota
Possibly re-work it, discuss during group meeting

## misc
###Uniforms
Shelve this discussion, not enough support from team about this

## Any Other Business
### Support
Lots of support issues this sprint! Assigned 13 points this sprint, not done that since February. Well done! Maybe due to TS1 coming online imminently, network changes, win10 changeover, etc.