# 2023-01-04

| Chair      | Timekeeper | Note Taker |
| :--------   | :---------: | ----------: |
| Jack Harper | Hannah Cawley | Nikola Roev |

## Items from [last retrospective](https://github.com/ISISComputingGroup/ibex_developers_manual/wiki/Retrospective-notes-2022.11.23):

### Windows 11 builds:
>> Perhaps just test squish and system tests on win11 with a win10 built client
>- FA: correction - we should rather have a win11 built client talking to win 10 build server
- Contact Facilities IT and ask for their Windows 11 migration plans. After which discussions about this topic can proceed with more relevant information.

### Should we push back on overly complicated requirements that spiral in scope? 
> - Example: RIKEN requesting very specific GUI behaviours that add a lot of complexity
> - There is only so much pushing back we can do, otherwise it will discourage migration to IBEX.
> - Pushing back should be done at the point of gathering requirements. This can look like:
>     - Offering a simplified version of the functionality that is being asked for. Try to get to the heart of what problem we are trying to solve
>     - Ask for precise answers of what is needed now & what will be needed later so we can prioritize more effectively
>     - Kathryn: If you feel uncomfortable pushing back, put me in the loop - this is my job
- Previous talking points were reinforced. General consensus was maybe trying to simplify requirements.

### Is "Previously Running" Column on instrument overview useful?
> - Posted something on technical to discuss this but people who could answer were not around at the time
> - Discuss this offline, just give the post on `technical` a bump
- An easily accessible web page on a public wiki is convenient for people doing support off-site as well as scientists.
- The information on the page might not always be correct as it needs to be updated manually when an instrument changes versions.
- Having the previous version adds clutter to the `Home` page.
- A proposed solution was adding a link to an auto-generated web page that will hold the version history of each instrument.

### General encouragement to pick up reflectometry tickets:
> - Thomas L: I have ended up giving reflectometry tickets to Nikola since they were suitable and no one had picked them up late into the sprint. This is ok but not ideal from a perspective of passing on / retaining specific knowledge
> - People may be busy with other things that demand attention which is absolutely fine
> - If you are a bit intimidated by reflectometry and that is a factor, always feel free to talk to Thomas to pair up. These tickets have been selected for being well scoped and not too nasty as an introduction!
- Discuss again when Thomas L. is present.


## Items from this retrospective:

### Is point allocation for support appropriate:
- A little bit on the low side but generally accurate.

### Migrating to new GitHub projects system and separating issues:
- Separating issues to their own repositories will make them less searchable and easier to be overlooked.
- New system has convenient features and will probably be used in the future.

### Coffee:
- Regular coffee meetings should continue.
- Organising a meeting with Mantid might be challenging as they have a lot of remote members.
- Accelerator meeting is more doable, should discuss again after follow up for more details.