# 2024-05-22

## Power Point slides

1.  **Lowri**:
    
    - Worked on a Friday ticket, adding component/configuration details.
    - Dealt with LabVIEW remote VI for easier communication.
2.  **Sudeepta**:
    
    - Attempted a Java 21 build for CSS.
    - Developed a custom emulator for Lindy PDU changes.
    - Worked on JMC-based profiling of instruments.
3.  **Evan**:
    
    - Set up EPICS build pipeline on Windows 11.
    - Dockerized an IOC for a Friday ticket.
    - Updated EPICS dependencies.
4.  **Freddie**:
    
    - Added PVAccess client library to Genie Python.
    - Reviewed tasks.
5.  **George**:
    
    - Updated Jenkins build checks.
    - Managed storage for non-science data on PCs.
6.  **David**:
    
    - Investigated Moxa RS485 settings.
    - Searched for an amplifier for Sudeeptaâ€™s project.
    - Handled Attocube issue and other tasks.
7.  **Jack**:
    
    - Discussed pearl camera differences.
    - Demonstrated Kepco IOC with PVAccess.
    - Highlighted PVAccess benefits.
8.  **Daniel:**
    
    - Worked on IBEX Windows 11 build.
    - Reworked IBEX buttons.
    - Dockerized the IOC.
    - Organized demos and reviewed system tests.
9.  **Isaac:**
    
    1.  McLennan Power cycle ticket
    2.  Helped refactor IbexButtonBuilder
    3.  Created several tickets for alarms based on a James Lord email
    4.  Web Dashboard work
    5.  IOC emulators kill processes more efficiently on ctrl+c tickets
10. **Zsolt:**
    
    1.  Updated PyLint
    2.  Helped refactor IbexButtonBuilder
    3.  Significant improvements/work done to Device Generator
11. **Ian:**
    
    1.  Onboarding work

## Old Retro

Keep flash reviews on the tasks. Leave a comment on the note saying picked up for review.

Keep having hybrid meetings

IP students don't have work phones so don't insist we use our phone all the time so not compulsory

Better labelling for burndown chart

Draw attention to impeded through a new mechanism.

## Current Retro

EPICS top PR Lowri says that there should be a better way to manage the submodules. Jack offered solution and Lowri updated the wiki page to reflect this.

If discussion ticket and clear acceptance criteria for outcome of discussion whoever assigned to to create the discussion just does it. If the implementation ends up going beyond the points then make another ticket for the rest of the implementation.

## Mad/Glad/Sad

*Sad:*
Short but productive sprint
Some of us missed the Aurora

*Mad:*
EPICS base has hundreds of merge conflicts

*Glad*
Ian has joined