# 2023-04-12

| Chair      | Timekeeper | Note Taker |
| :--------   | :---------: | ----------: |
| NR | HC | JH |


## Items from [last retrospective](Retrospective-Notes-2023.03.08):

### Standing in the conference room at standup 
- people do whatever they want

### CO2 monitor
- nothing yet, but getting warmer so less of an issue. FA to ask estates - not sure if done yet? 

### Concerns regarding recording hotfixes
Some tickets have been created for this now. 

### DB truncation 
there is a ticket proposed for this to create/use mysql instance

### Barriers for instrument demos
decided to leave them in the end 
brought up larger issue of picking up higher priority tickets 
- this sprint we have done this more, so just need to keep aware of it


## Items from this retrospective:

### We should set up manual squish test rota
- ticket created to see which ones can _actually_ be automated. ticket has been proposed.
- we should create tickets each time we do this to track progress and be transparent. 


### Flash reviews hanging round
- perhaps we should bring them up at standup on Mondays to get them through
- should add this on to the Monday reviews (project board etc.)
- add to list of things to check at standup on a Monday and assign people 
- should we use a different way of telling about flash reviews? have to be careful about making it too heavyweight. 
- checking at standup requires little extra effort, we should do this. 
ACTION add this to standup list

### Are we getting a benefit from discussing points? 
- we should properly revisit this time when KVLB is here. 

### What information needs to be shared so that others can lead planning?
- not 100% confident in leading the PI boards - it has been explained but still not sure.
- do we need to not look at the PI boards - they are project planning but perhaps we need to just know how many points we have to play with
- discuss this again when KVLB is here. 


