# 2023-07-12

| Chair      | Timekeeper | Note Taker |
| :--------   | :---------: | ----------: |
| TL | NR | HC |

## Items from last retrospective:

### 
> Check if on-site rota needs to be balanced better.
- Some shifts made so Wednesday is has better coverage, but this has been done and all seems better distributed.

## Items from this retrospective:

### Leading Planning: what information needs to be shared/what do we think about sharing the responsibility
- LJ ran the last planning meeting, and LC is scheduled to run the next. All went well last meeting, so agreed it would make sense to start a rota so we can assign responsibility as we do with all other meetings.

### Outdoor Coffeeâ„¢
- HC and LJ had a trial run and thought it was lovely!
- General consensus of hybrid coffee doesn't work well. Thoughts:
   - We currently have staggered on-site Coffees so that all with different onsite days get to attend. However, this was multiple rota shifts ago, so maybe this needs a rethink. So, maybe we only host in person Coffee, as online can be a bit intimidating to join.
   - Maybe we consider hosting a separate optional online coffee - could be a chat, could be a zoom call.

### Mechanism to propose tickets for future sprints, not necessarily the next one
 - KB mentioned PI board is exactly for this, and people are welcome to utilise it for this purpose. However, we should consult KB before adding tickets on so it doesn't get horrifyingly cluttered.
   - This would also be appreciated as it means not all the responsibility falls on to one person!
 - Agreed solution (along with any notes in the ticket to detail the expectations):
   - For [PI_2023_02](https://github.com/orgs/ISISComputingGroup/projects/4), tickets can be added to the PI board, in the ['Next PI' column](https://github.com/orgs/ISISComputingGroup/projects/4/views/5)
   - For later PIs, tickets can be added to the correct sprint column in the 'Breakdown by Sprint' view

### Other comments (Mad/Glad/Sad)
- Sad: Have had a very busy sprint with onboarding and support, so highest priority tickets haven't been completed.
    - TS1 having lots of problems with odd changes we haven't been informed about, and bits of equipment that haven't been moved in ages. We'll have a few more instruments showing up in September so can expect similar support issues then.
- Sad: H & N leaving :(
- Mad: FMR - "if FMR comes back it will be drop kicked off the top of R80" and JH will cry

