# 2025-10-02

## Sprint 2025-10-30 Retrospective (2025-11-25)

| Chair | Timekeeper | Note Taker |
|-------|------------|------------|
| GR    | CMS         | SpC         |

## Items from previous Retrospective
### Support for non-`NDH`/`NDX`
- continuing as is 

### 1926 Build server
- reimagined and back doing builds

### Server Common

### PR Templates
- no longer a consensus

### Location of Emulators
- still needs to have a technical discussion

### Sysadmin docs location

### Work Experience Student
- deadline has passed

### Contact Cards
- in progress

## Items from this retrospective:
### Weird Permissions on stage-deleted
- Issue bumped until JH is back

### Disk Space
- GR to setup a technical discussion to discuss further for anyone interested

### Internal Facing Docs
- TW to write a ticket to put through to a planning meeting an discuss more then

### SSH Keys
- Issue bumped to next retrospective

### Standup Rota
- general consensus of agreement

### Forwards for support issues
- Wait until there are a few more weeks experience with this
- Issue bumped to next retrospective

### Standup
- Issue bumped to the end of next sprint after ways of working meeting

### Maintaining archivewatcher
- Issue bumped to next retrospective when JH is here

## Mad/Sad/Glad
- nothing mentioned
