# Sprint 2025-07-31 Retrospective (2025-08-27)

| Chair | Timekeeper | Note Taker |
|-------|------------|------------|
| ~~FA~~ GR    | ~~CMS~~ JH         | DM        |

## Items from previous Retrospective
### NDW1926 Linux build?
 - JH states that it is faster.
 - JH notes that NDX1926 was switched off in October as it canâ€™t run windows 11 and as a result we will be down one build node.
 - JH suggests we consider buying another build machine. Further discussions during the Experiment Controls Group Meeting need to be had about purchasing machine before it is critical.

### IBEX Wiki things needed to be done (Documentation)
 - JH states this issue is ongoing, as sprint it coming up he will double check time frames.

## Items from this retrospective:
###  Navigation of folders during deployment
 - Discussion were had around the organisation of the \\isis\shares into a scratch directory, KB mentioned that scratch could be a misleading/confusing name.
 - JH suggests moving releases up the directory tree.
 - JH will provide a proposal in advance about his plans to change the file structure and give people an opportunity to add comments.

### globals.txt v config ioc macros
 - Telling people that globals.txt exist and that they would need to change them.
 - A ticket will be created for the next sprint.

### First line support 
 - Pushed forward to next retro due to FA absence. 

### Deployment

### Windows defender 
 - JH mentions it better than Sophos.

### Disk space
 - Postponed to another meeting or next retro.
    
## ðŸ˜ ðŸ˜¢ðŸ˜„
ðŸ˜• Nothing captured

