# 2025-05-07
## Sprint 2025_04_03 Retrospective (2025-05-07)

| Chair | Timekeeper | Note Taker |
|-------|------------|------------|
| FA    | ???        | DK         |


## Previous previous sprint

- TW: New wiki style better for searching, can still use GH search.  Other search plugins available to improve further, will investigate.
- JD: PyRight day postponed as people busy.
 

## Previous sprint

- FA: Possibly host central MYSQL instance ourselves.  CMS will investigate server options.
- FA: May need to revisit onsite rotas later in year.
- LJ: EPICS collaboration on site - more local contacts made through recent meeting.


## Current Sprint

### Move retro notes away from dev wiki?
- LJ: if not wiki for retro notes, then not definitely _not_ MS Teams.
- TW, GR: MS Teams not good for searching.
- TW: Concatenate all notes into one page to help searching?
- KB: Not recommended for general search results as will pick up all matches in wiki including notes.
- FA: Exclude some retro notes from search results?
- TW: Sphinx can be configured accordingly.
- GR: Try above and revisit next sprint retro?
- ALL: Yes.
- TW: Can add tags to pages to aid searching/result filtering.

### Office spring clean?
- GR: Will put something in calendar for an afternoon.
- Various: Boxes, monitors, dead chairs to get rid of.

### Now no SECI - Tech Debt day to remove references?
- KB: Some VIs still used.
- KB: Releasing to HIFI & ARGUS in August and then testing, so can't remove all SECI before that.
- Various: Then start SECI removal after next release?
- LC: will book date for beginning of September.

### IBEX Training:
- TW,LJ: SECI no longer covered in course so went more quickly.  Also fewer trainees this time.
- KB: Expand course to cover more functionality and fill time instead.
- LJ: Will create ticket to cover changes.

### No longer look at project board during Stand-Up meeting once per week?
- GR: Do auto project board checks satisfy requirements?
- LJ: Need to check uptake of tickets from top of Ready column.  Not currently covered in checks.
- KB: Could be added to checks (e.g. ticket taken from below one of higher priority).
- LC: Auto check better idea - people will forget what board looks like from week-to-week for comparison.
- FA: Useful to see names of tickets on auto check results.  Need context for results.
- KB: This can also be added to checks output.
- LJ: Not much more gained by 'physically' looking at board.
- GR: Should still look at board at time of release to check progress of specific tickets.
- KB: Can always _optionally_ look at board.  LC changed Stand-Up instructions.


## ðŸ˜ ðŸ˜¢ðŸ˜„
- FA,DK: ðŸ˜„ EPICS meeting on site went very well.  Thanks to local organisers.
- LJ: ðŸ˜„ IP recruitment process over (nearly).  LC: Offer going out soon.
- CM: ðŸ˜¢ about Oracle purchase freeze and GPC removal.
- DK: ðŸ˜¢ that was low turnout for IBEX training.
