# 2021-05-26

### Previous retrospective notes discussion

* Happy to keep burndown chart calculation as is.  i.e. begin with estimate of capacity covering all projects

* Technical Articles meeting arranged and suggestions for books etc. requested.

* Zero points possible for support tasks, if only few minutes spent.  Suggestion to count and categorize posts in "support-issues" channel to spot patterns.  Agreed to discuss before next cycle at end of long shutdown.

* Split of review and retrospective meetings: most people accept.  Agreed to alter order of meetings and having on separate days i.e. review Tuesday, retrospective Wednesday, planning Thursday.  Will have think about how it could work during next sprint, but not change anything, and try in practice next cycle.

* Variable sprint lengths also accepted by most, as long as not too long (>6 weeks?).

* "Friday" ticket time: most agreed with KVLB plan to have a week of them every now and again.

### Retrospective Notes 26/05/2021

* Agreed to keep same chair for both sprint review and retrospective meetings.

* Suggestion to add alarm history to Alarm view - add to Muon snag list and discuss at later date.  Can add Friday ticket label for interesting tasks.  

* Remove "Complete" Column.  Easier for reviewer to close ticket at end of review (if work satisfactory).

* User feedback - HLM website proved useful for tracking a problem.

* Discuss sprint themes at pre-planning meetings - agreed to continue.

* "Support" label tickets requiring release notes - discussion on release notes in general.  Another label will be created for "Release notes not needed" to apply to any ticket, support and otherwise.  Reviewer to check.

* Snags lists popular, at least with Muon group, also for reflectometry.  Will eventually be one for each science group if many requests/problems come in from them.  Not everyone in group keen on the idea until after migrations.  Some confusion between definition of snag list and prioritised list of instrument tasks.

* Release & deploy schedule discussed.  Balance between features and stability for instrument scientists - some prefer each one.  Don't want to deploy too late in a shutdown so IS testing time is reduced.

* Cable and connector amnesty during shutdown (Short of particular types of MOXA cables).  Generally agreed good idea.  DPK voluntold to organise.

* Suggestion to visit each cabin and blockhouse to tidy & label wiring, especially in rear of cabins.  Possibility for a Friday or TechDebt ticket.

* Cycle went well.  Support calls at manageable levels, although busy at start with hardware issues (DAE etc) as well as week before.  POLREF unlucky with many issues.
